# Errors should never pass silently.

There is the "should never do" try - except - pass, because percolating unhandled errors form a serious risk and can lead to debugging challenges.

But even if you catch the exception, you ideally still should do something.

In the following code, the error is caught but not handled, which is not recommended:

```
def divide_numbers(a, b):
    try:
        return a / b
    except ZeroDivisionError:
        pass
```

This is slightly better then except: pass, but we don't handle the error.

So let's add some logging and an explicit return statement:

```
import logging

def divide_numbers(a, b):
    try:
        return a / b
    except ZeroDivisionError as e:
        logging.error(f"Error in divide_numbers: {e}")
        return None
```

But now we've added another return type, None. So let's give the consumer of our function a hint about that:

```
import logging

def divide_numbers(a: float, b: float) -> float | None:
    try:
        return a / b
    except ZeroDivisionError as e:
        logging.error(f"Error in divide_numbers: {e}")
        return None
```

This function signature makes it clear that the function can return a float or None. It clarifies the function's "contract" with its callers, indicating that they need to handle the potential `None` return value.

In more complex scenarios, re-raising the exception might be a better approach, depending on the context. For example, in a library function, re-raising an exception with additional context can be more useful than logging, as it allows the caller to handle the exception based on their specific needs.

Handling errors properly is crucial — it involves not just catching them, but also considering the most sensible action afterward, whether it's logging, returning a special value, or re-raising the exception.

I hope this illustrates the concept of "Errors should never pass silently".

#zen
